["Mus musculus"]
["Brain"]
[""]
["10x Visium"]
["Bacterial"]
 Abstract\nMicrobial components have a range of direct effects on the fetal brain. However, little is known about the cellular targets and molecular mechanisms that mediate these effects. Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) control the size and architecture of the brain and understanding the mechanisms regulating NPCs is crucial to understanding brain developmental disorders. We identify ventricular radial glia (vRG), the primary NPC, as the target of bacterial cell wall (BCW) generated during the antibiotic treatment of maternal pneumonia. BCW enhanced proliferative potential of vRGs by shortening the cell cycle and increasing self-renewal. Expanded vRGs propagated to increase neuronal output in all cortical layers. Remarkably, Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), which recognizes BCW, localized at the base of primary cilia in vRGs and the BCW-TLR2 interaction suppressed ciliogenesis leading to derepression of Hedgehog (HH) signaling and expansion of vRGs. We also show that TLR6 is an essential partner of TLR2 in this process. Surprisingly, TLR6 alone was required to set the number of cortical neurons under healthy conditions. These findings suggest that an endogenous signal from TLRs suppresses cortical expansion during normal development of the neocortex and that BCW antagonizes that signal through the TLR2/cilia/HH signaling axis changing brain structure and function.IMPORTANCEFetal brain development in early gestation can be impacted by transplacental infection, altered metabolites from the maternal microbiome, or maternal immune activation. It is less well understood how maternal microbial subcomponents that cross the placenta, such as bacterial cell wall (BCW), directly interact with fetal neural progenitors and neurons and affect development. This scenario plays out in the clinic when BCW debris released during antibiotic therapy of maternal infection traffics to the fetal brain. This study identifies the direct interaction of BCW with TLR2/6 present on the primary cilium, the signaling hub on fetal neural progenitor cells (NPCs). NPCs control the size and architecture of the brain and understanding the mechanisms regulating NPCs is crucial to understanding brain developmental disorders. Within a window of vulnerability before the appearance of fetal immune cells, the BCW-TLR2/6 interaction results in the inhibition of ciliogenesis, derepression of Sonic Hedgehog signaling, excess proliferation of neural progenitors, and abnormal cortical architecture. In the first example of TLR signaling linked to Sonic Hedgehog, BCW/TLR2/6 appears to act during fetal brain morphogenesis to play a role in setting the total cell number in the neocortex. \n Keywords:Toll-like receptors; cell wall; hedgehog signaling; neocortex.
