###schema###
organ_parts:['Main olfactory bulb', 'Gastric cancer', 'Detrusor layer of bladder', 'Prostate epithelial organoids', 'Upper pulmonary brances', 'Larvae', 'Tibialis anterior muscle', 'Mouse Embryo', 'Embryo', 'Main olfactory epithelium', 'Human cell lines', 'Gastrulation', 'Gonad tissue', 'MC38 syngeneic tumor', 'Cervical tissue', 'Primary PDAC tumor', 'Renal pelvis', ' Striatum', 'Coronal brain section', 'Fetal liver', 'B16F10 syngeneic tumor', 'Adrenal tissue', 'Whole Bladder', 'Transmural cross-section of the heart', 'Skin', 'hypothalamus', 'SHY neuroblasts', 'Olfactory bulb', 'Angiomyolipoma (AML)', 'GAN-KP tumor', 'Mouse aorta', 'Mouse atrium', 'Postmortem Lung', 'Embryo implantation site', 'Primary colorectal cancer', 'Mouse ventricle', 'Postmortem brain', 'Liver tissue', 'Myocardium', 'Ileum', 'Femur', 'Hindpaw', 'Nodule', 'Bartilage', 'Breast Cancer', 'Atopic dermatitis lesional skin', 'Bone', 'Leaf', 'Colorectal tissue', 'IPS cells', 'Brain', 'Right atrial appendage (RAA)', 'Glioblastoma multiforme tissue', 'GBM Tissue', 'Microglia', 'Medulla', 'Whole Mouse Bladder', 'Oral mucosa', 'Prostatic cancer', 'Heart', 'NIH3T3 cells', 'Coronal Brain', 'Dissociated Mouse Bladder', 'Lumbar spinal cord (L3/L4)', 'Gastruloid', 'SAM', 'Tail skin', 'Cauline leaf', 'Breast cancer', 'Neural tube', 'Root', 'Angiosarcomas', 'Suprachiasmatic nucleus', 'Hippocampus', 'Pancreatic adenocarcinoma', 'Trunk', 'HeLa cells', 'Muscle-invasive bladder cancer', 'Frontal cortex', 'CRLM', 'Representative psoas major muscle', 'lymphoma', 'Kidney organoid', 'Skeletal muscle (quadriceps)', 'Atopic dermatitis non-lesional skin', 'Gastrulation embryos', 'Sagittal suture', 'Visual cortex', 'Pancreatic cancer', 'Stem', 'Lung organoid', 'Follicles', 'Liver', 'Whole Bladder Nuclear', 'Squamous Cell Carcinoma', 'Basal cell carcinoma', 'ccRCC tumor', 'Coronal brain', 'Left ventricular needle (LV)', 'Colon', 'Lumbar spinal cord (L5/S1)', 'Synovial tissue', 'Sagittal section', 'Kidney-resident macrophages (KRMs)', 'Dorsolateral prefrontal cortex', 'Cervical cancer', 'Human cortex', 'Mature olfactory sensory neuron', 'Donor pancreas', 'Cortex', 'Adenoid cystic carcinoma of lacrimal gland', 'Skeletal Muscle', 'Skin irAE'],
###input###
 Abstract
Cutaneous malignant melanoma (melanoma) is characterized by a high mutational load, extensive intertumoral and intratumoral genetic heterogeneity, and complex tumor microenvironment (TME) interactions. Further insights into the mechanisms underlying melanoma are crucial for understanding tumor progression and responses to treatment. Here we adapted the technology of spatial transcriptomics (ST) to melanoma lymph node biopsies and successfully sequenced the transcriptomes of over 2,200 tissue domains. Deconvolution combined with traditional approaches for dimensional reduction of transcriptome-wide data enabled us to both visualize the transcriptional landscape within the tissue and identify gene expression profiles linked to specific histologic entities. Our unsupervised analysis revealed a complex spatial intratumoral composition of melanoma metastases that was not evident through morphologic annotation. Each biopsy showed distinct gene expression profiles and included examples of the coexistence of multiple melanoma signatures within a single tumor region as well as shared profiles for lymphoid tissue characterized according to their spatial location and gene expression profiles. The lymphoid area in close proximity to the tumor region displayed a specific expression pattern, which may reflect the TME, a key component to fully understanding tumor progression. In conclusion, using the ST technology to generate gene expression profiles reveals a detailed landscape of melanoma metastases. This should inspire researchers to integrate spatial information into analyses aiming to identify the factors underlying tumor progression and therapy outcome.Significance:Applying ST technology to gene expression profiling in melanoma lymph node metastases reveals a complex transcriptional landscape in a spatial context, which is essential for understanding the multiple components of tumor progression and therapy outcome.Cancer Res; 78(20); 5970-9. 漏2018 AACR.Let's think step by step.
###Keywords###
From the abstract, keywords such as "Cutaneous malignant melanoma," "melanoma," "lymph node biopsies," and "spatial transcriptomics" are prominent. However, none of these directly match the items in the provided schema.
###Verify###
Upon reviewing the abstract, we see mentions of "melanoma lymph node biopsies" and "spatial transcriptomics," but these do not directly correspond to any specific organ parts listed in the schema.
###Context###
Given the focus on "melanoma lymph node biopsies," we need to consider if any of the schema items could be related to lymph nodes or melanoma. The closest potential matches might be "Lymphoma" or "Skin," but the context does not strongly support these as the primary focus is on the lymph node biopsies in the context of melanoma, not the skin itself or lymphoma as a disease.
###Conclusion###
The abstract does not provide a clear match to any of the organ parts listed in the schema. The primary focus is on the application of spatial transcriptomics to melanoma lymph node biopsies, which does not directly align with any specific organ part in the given list.
###Result###
null
